# Frozen Flowers

## Kore Yamazaki

Hazel left the two young women mulling over gifts for their loved ones and
realized he would be done with work before sunset.

The bag fashioned from his ancestor’s leather was empty, no longer weighing him
down. The town gleamed with Christmas decorations, and Hazel felt light of foot.

He felt almost human. He couldn’t help but smile.

He snorted, breaking into a trot. To Hazel, the rhythm of his four hooves was
like a song, but only other centaurs would understand. Anyone else would just
call it a racket.

Hazel broke into a gallop but halted a moment later.

Some shadowy, messy thing had just crossed the path ahead of him.

“Oh. Mm. Yeah…”

It was muttering to itself, bumping into the half-seen humans on the other side
of the veil as it dragged itself along. Those it bumped did not appear to
notice, but watching it writhe through the streets was deeply unpleasant. Just
the thought of touching it unsettled Hazel.

Yet Hazel raised his cap as it passed. Even this thing might one day become a
customer.

Many creatures such as this existed in big cities. Hazel wasn’t sure if they
were ghosts or living beings. Cities messed with the winds. Now, as in the past,
wherever people gathered, so too did these apparitions.

London was crowded with buildings, cars, and people. Parts of it smelled
genuinely terrible. There were large parks and little gardens, but it wasn’t
exactly easy for someone of Hazel’s size to run around. While he was wearing
horseshoes, the asphalt was still bad for his hooves. He had to maintain
constant vigilance as he ran in order to avoid hitting something. If he tripped,
or tripped up someone else, he would bring shame to his species.

That said, unlike the “surface” roads the humans used, creatures such as Hazel
used the “back” roads that lay reflected in pools of rainwater. This allowed
them some freedom of movement.

The writhing shadow became lost in the crowd, out of sight.

Hazel put his hat back on. He made certain the string was secured under his chin
and broke into a gentle trot.

The silent winter wind felt amazing, and Hazel breathed deeply. The wind carried
the smell of winter, subtly distinct from that of the city itself. Inhaling it,
he left London behind, following a hidden path. Making good use of a shortcut,
his pace grew steadily faster.

As he ran farther and farther north, the sights before his eyes gradually began
to change. The rowan fruit appeared to slumber, while the fields of grass
maintained a frosty silence. Even the ancient stones that lined these country
roads spoke not a word.

Hazel ran until the sun sank below the horizon and at last arrived at a house.

It appeared to be a normal home, no different from any other found this deep in
the country. Its dark walls were made of gray stone. Firelight flickered through
the windows. The thorny leaves of the holly growing over it were full of life,
but the garden’s roses, trimmed for winter, lay slumbering in anticipation of
far-off spring. Only the green apple tree growing by the door greeted Hazel
warmly.

Somehow, this tree bore fruit year-round. Hazel took one.

The tree released the apple into his palm without resistance.

These were tart apples, well suited to baking. As he was about to take a bite,
the door suddenly opened.

“Hazel! I told you to call out the moment you arrive!”

It was a woman with hair so black it was almost blue. A quilt covered her
shoulders in place of a shawl.

With the warm light of home at her back, she shook with anger, as if she were
scolding a wayward child.

“It’s been a while, Aunt Marie.”

Hazel put the unbitten green apple in his pocket and tapped his hooves in
greeting.

Hazel’s two-legged aunt Marie lived far from northern Britain, where the centaur
herd roamed. While most centaurs had four legs, every so often one would be born
with two, like a homo sapiens. Born without a horse’s body, they were weak
compared to an ordinary four-legged centaur. While centaur children could stand
moments after birth, two-legged children took months before they could eat and
move about on their own.

But two-legged centaurs could do more with their hands and were far more
sensitive to problems of the heart.

Life with the centaur herd was difficult for them as they were better suited to
living among the homo sapiens—among humans.

For this reason, two-legged children were sent to live with humans who knew
about these things or with two-legged centaurs already dwelling in human
society. This was considered beneficial for all involved.

Marie, too, had been sent to live with two-legged friends and raised as a human.
